@document.meta
title: README
description:
authors: lukas
categories:
created: 2023-12-20T14:07:40+0100
updated: 2023-12-20T14:07:40+0100
version: 1.1.1
@end

This is a tool for parsing norg files into any other file format with pandoc.
Multiple files will be parsed in a multithreaded fashion.

This README is about the binary you can use.
If you're interested in the library under the hood, you can read its {:lib/README:}[README].
You can also find the {:lib/README:# Supported Layers}[supported layers]
of the norg specification there

* Installation

  Due to the alpha status of this tool there currently are no prebuilt binaries you could use

  However, if you want to use it, you need to
  {https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/getting-started/installation.html}[install cargo], clone this repo and
  run `cargo build -r`

** Dependencies

   Due to this tool using Pandoc under the hood, you obviously need to install that

* Usage

  The basic usage is like this: `norg_pandoc_rs -t <file format to convert to> <input path>`

  Here is a list of all arguments:

  - Required:
  -- The input path. If it's just one file, it will parse that one file. If it is a directory it will parse any `norg` files it can find.
  -- `-t/--to` The file format to convert to
  - Optional
  -- `-o/--output` Directory/File to save the parsed result to. If the input is a directory but this flag
      is given a file it will error out
  -- `-j/--jobs` The number of threads to use to parse the directory. The default is double the number of
      available CPUs
  -- All arguments that come after a `--` will be passed on to pandoc

* Exit Codes

  I try to use each exit code only once, and usually they are accompanied by an error message.
  Here are all exit codes with their cause:

- :
  $ 1
  The given input path doesn't exist
- :
  $ -1
  Pandoc couldn't be run. Check the error message for more information
- :
  $ 3
  The parent directory of the output file couldn't be created
